## Information Retreival

Information retrieval (IR) refers to everything related to organizing, processing, or accessing information in any format or form [^Chowdhury]. The purpose is to store and discover knowledge in response to a user request (query) [^Roshdki]. The term was coined in 1952 [^Chowdhury]. An Information Retrieval System (IRS) facilitates users in obtaining useful information from a coordinated collection of documents [^Chowdhury]. The goal of an Information Retrieval System is to gather a relevant document and/or satisfy user needs [^Roshdki]. To obtain this goal, IRS's generally implements 3 processes [^Roshdki]. In the indexing process, documents are represented in summarized content form [^Roshdki]. In the filtering process, common and stop words are removed [^Roshdki]. Finally, techniques are used to obtain the most relevant documents with the user's search [^Roshdki]. In assessing the quality of informational retrieval 2 measures are used [^Roshdki]. The first measure used, precision, equates to the percent of retrieved documents relevant to the query [^Roshdki]. The second measure, recall, is the percent of documents relevant to the   query and retrieved [^Roshdki]. Historically, retrieving information stems back to Sumerians archiving information on clay tablets in 3000 BC [^Singhal]. Currently, computers have been recognized as highly effective for retrieving large amounts of data at once [^Singhal]. Information retrieval systems are used every day, and include searching for an email, finding a video on YouTube, or searching for something on the web [^Chowdhury].

[^Roshdki]: Roshdi, Akram, and Akram Roohparvar. "Information retrieval techniques and applications." International Journal of Computer Networks and Communications Security 3, no. 9 (2015): 373-377.

[^Singhal]: Singhal, Amit. "Modern information retrieval: A brief overview." IEEE Data Eng. Bull. 24, no. 4 (2001): 35-43.

[^Chowdhury]: Chowdhury, Gobinda G. Introduction to modern information retrieval. Facet publishing, 2010.
